# Enhancement One: Software Engineering and Design

The artifact that has been chosen for Enhancement One:  Software Design/ Engineering was the final project from IT-145 Foundation in Application Development that I completed in October of 2018.  The final project involved creating an authentication system for a Zoo where users would be presented with a menu option to login and upon successful login would be presented with a welcome message based upon their role.  The artifact was written in Java and utilized MD5 to validate the user’s password.

The IT-145 Zoo authentication system was chosen as this was one of my first exposures to Java and the project allowed for the better understanding of utilizing variables, operators, methods, classes in an object-orientated program.  I also felt that getting more exposure to Java and refreshing my learning from 2018 will help me move forward in my understanding and learnings paths.  

Enhancing the artifact has allowed me to showcase my abilities to reverse engineer, utilize new software development methods, enhance, and showcase different thought approaches and ensure that security was front of mind when developing. I enjoyed programing in Java at the time of the initial work but had little exposure to it since and wanted to challenge myself. Through my code review and design process I settled on enhancing the artifact to include SHA-256 as a validation method along with MD5.  Additionally, a bug with the code was also uncovered that enabled a security risk where a user could enter a partial username and still be validated. This bug was also addressed in the artifact.

The major changes to the program deal with security, enhance functionality and increased readability.  As mentioned previously the code was written over three years ago and there was a need to reverse engineer things to really understand how the solution was provided and how the code was put together.  Once the existing code was fully understood I ran repeated tests against the code to ensure that I had a good starting point.  It was during this testing I uncovered a security issue mentioned.  The existing code only looked to see if it the entered username was contained in the credentials file line.  This oversight allowed the user to enter any character that existed in the username ad be authenticated into of having a one for one match.  

It was nice to go back and look at the code that I had written back in 2018.  I didn’t remember much of the exercise other than the high-level objective and had to relearn the approach that I took and how the program was stitched together.  Luckily, I had done a solid job of utilizing annotations and the code was organized well.  The review and testing processes mentioned allowed to quickly become familiar with the code again and I was able to make the changes needed quickly.

During the process I learned how to think critically about the bug that was found and think about how to resolve the security issue.  I am a troubleshooter at heart, and I enjoyed working through this problem.  The logically thinking, the implementation of code lines to debug and the overall satisfaction of fixing the problem was a great experience.  I also learned more about regex expressions in Java and noted that future enhancements should focus on replacing these to increase performance.

The main purpose of the addition of SHA-256 was not truly for security but to showcase the knowledge of working with additional classes, variables, and menu options to the overall program. The actual change included modifying the Main Class to allow for the addition of the new menu item, including the additional code for the new SHA-256 menu option, changing the code variables to denote MD5 or SHA-256, and creating the new SHA-256 class that took the username, password input and performed the actual validation.

This artifact allowed me to showcase the course outcome of CS-499-04 demonstrating an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals and CS-499-05 developing a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources.

## ePortfolio Links
* [Main ePortfolio Page](https://tobiasobrien.github.io/CS-499-ePortfolio/)<br>
* [Refinement Plan and Code Review](https://tobiasobrien.github.io/CS-499-ePortfolio/CodeReview.html)<br>
* [Artifact One](https://tobiasobrien.github.io/CS-499-ePortfolio/EnhancementOne.html)<br>
* [Artifact Two](https://tobiasobrien.github.io/CS-499-ePortfolio/EnhancementTwo.html)<br>
* [Artifact Three](https://tobiasobrien.github.io/CS-499-ePortfolio/EnhancementThree.html)<br>
